# ML666 Implementation

This is about the implementation in this repository.
For the ML666 syntax & semantics, see [syntax.abnf](syntax.abnf), [syntax.xhtml](syntax.xhtml) and [semantics.md](semantics.md).
This is a top-down streaming tokenizer.

# Tokenizer API

## Datastructures:
```c
struct ml666_buffer_ro {
  const char* data;
  size_t length;
};

struct ml666_tokenizer {
  enum ml666_token token;
  struct ml666_buffer_ro match;
  bool complete;
  const char* error;
  size_t line, column;
};
```

## Tokens

* `ML666_NONE` - No token was matched. Also, this constant has value 0.
* `ML666_EOF` - The parser is finished
* `ML666_TAG` - A tag was matched. Note: A tag can be empty!
* `ML666_END_TAG` - An end tag was matched, or the tag was self-closing. Closes the current element. If the token has matched matched content,
  it must match the opening tags name, but the tokenizer does not check that.
* `ML666_ATTRIBUTE` - An Attribute was matched
* `ML666_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE` - The value of the previous attribute
* `ML666_TEXT` - Text. Can actually contain any binary data, though.
* `ML666_COMMENT` - A comment

The matched token content is already decoded. No escape sequences are left, hex & base64 text has been decoded, no delimiters are present.
What is returned are chunks of the actual value / data of the token.

## Functions

```c
struct ml666_tokenizer* ml666_tokenizer_create(int fd);
bool ml666_tokenizer_next(struct ml666_tokenizer* state);
void ml666_tokenizer_destroy(struct ml666_tokenizer* state);
```

## Usage

`struct ml666_tokenizer` instances must be created using the `ml666_tokenizer_create` function. It takes the file descriptor to read from.
It doesn't matter if it's a socket, a regular file, non-blocking, etc. It only needs `read` to work on the fd. The fd is not dublicated.

The parser should call `ml666_tokenizer_next` until it returns false. That happens on EOF and on error, in which case `token` is also set
to `ML666_EOF`. After each call, if it has matched a token, it will set `token` and `match`. Otherwise, it'll set them to null. A token
may be returned in multiple chunks, the final one has `complete` set. `ml666_tokenizer_next` may sometimes return without returning a token.
Repeating `ml666_tokenizer_next` in that case may block if the fd is in blocking mode.
If an error occurs, `error` will be set, and `ml666_tokenizer_next` will have returned false. `line` and `column` do not point to the start
of the current token, but the next character to be parsed, which usually is the end of a token, or an invalid character. `match` contains
binary data, it can contain null-bytes. The data it points to is read-only / write protected.

Please note that the ML666 tokenizer will not check if all tags have been closed, and it will not check if open and closing tags match.
The parser should do that.

`ml666_tokenizer_destroy` will free the parser instance and closes the fd passed to it.

# Parser API

TODO
